<h2>Learning the Language of Proteins</h2>

Our machine learning project is driven by recent breakthroughs in Natural Language Processing and transformer models that have paved the way for new types of deep language models. One of the most promising applications of these models is in the biological domain, where development of general-purpose protein language model can predict specific protein types. This could pave the way to more effective, safer cancer treatments.

To achieve this goal, we aimed to develop a language model capable of predicting specific protein types by leveraging existing pre-trained models on protein datasets. We explored classical approaches such as hand-engineered representations based on biological, statistical, and chemical properties of the peptides. Our models learned from three small datasets containing amino acid sequences with labeled pairs of inputs and outputs provided as .csv files. 

Our primary accuracy metric is classification accuracy, which measures the proportion of correct predictions made by the model. This metric is directly connected to the KPIs named above, as the success of the project is dependent on the accuracy of the model in predicting specific protein types. We believe that the potential business value hypothesis of AI-inspired protein-sequencing breakthroughs like this is significant in the long term, particularly in the biotechnology industry. Our project could help the way we approach cancer treatments, creating more effective and personalized treatment options for cancer patients.

In conclusion, our machine learning project focused on providing developing accessible models to researchers that can predict specific protein types, with potential business value in the biotechnology industry. We deployed the trained models to (i) Streamlit accessible via https://gillesbouyer-lop-language-of-proteins-streamlitv7-m20ksg.streamlit.app, and (ii) AWS accessible via fastAPI endpoint http://52.23.167.88:8000/docs#/default/get_prediction_predict_post. Our work would benefit from protein expert feedback who are working on treating cancer. We could use their insights to improve our models, hoping they would add it to their portfolio of techniques aimed improving the lives of millions of people worldwide.
